Hey, this guy's on the wall.
This is number two of the Baskin tape.
Belong to The Earls of Arenberg, North Kyrton.
Very great collection.
There are three books here.
The book that interests us.
Who puts these little things in there?
The bookseller.
That's not such a great idea.
It doesn't matter.
We bought this from Colin Franklin in 1985.
And he wanted... No, no, no.
Yeah, but that's going to discolor, isn't it?
What's going to discolor?
Isn't that going to discolor the entry?
Possibly.
Doesn't matter.
It's probably done some damage right there a few.
I should take it out.
There are three books.
This is the book.
It's called Kunstbuchlein.
It's a little book of art.
Do you count, Jeremy?
No.
$15.99.
A novel book.
It's like an artist's morgue.
You know what that is?
If you were to get a paper, you should know.
You want to know how to do a horseman, a different nationality.
You want to know how to do an old witch, or a civil, or different costumes.
You want to know how a drummer looks.
Those are some of the sharpest plates.
And how to do a turks cat.
The ink is a little darker on some of these.
Yeah, of course.
How many of these plates do you think that they would pull?
Oh, this is not a common book.
This is a six, seven thousand dollar book today.
But Rubens, there are drawings by Rubens of a lot of these pages, which he copied.
He used it as an author.
You see, he used it.
He learned from it.
And here you see it.
But you've got to know that again.
Your dealer didn't know that, did he?
Yeah.
He knew that, sure.
Well, the thing is, we've owned this book before.
We've sold it once.
We've sold it.
And it was so hard.
It was one of our favorite books.
It was so hard to have sold it, and we bought it first.
We bought another copy.
Give me the title once again, because— Kunstbuchlein.
Kunst, Art, Buch, Buch.
Line is little.
Little art book.
How would you spell that?
K-U-N-S-T-B-U-C-H-L-I-N.
And then by whom?
Who was the question?
Joost Amann.
Joost Amann von Nuremberg.
Okay.
Published by his friend, Sigmund... Look at the date on it.
1599.
It was crystal, it was 20 years ago.
Or yesterday.
Gorgeous.
Do you feel the magic in these rooms?
I mean, I don't want to go up here.
No, no magic.
No magic.
You feel it, don't you?
You know, there were model books for everything.
For handwriting, you know about writing.
Mm-hmm.
Telegraphy.
Oh, boy.
Both.
So who designed the room?
Both?
Both of them.
No.
But you had to have this high ceiling.
The ceiling was here.
This was a shell.
But I mean, you saw the potential.
I saw the potential.
Because you go 11 tiers up.
And, you know, we drew it on the wall.
We had two very good properties.
We had wonderful properties.
Is this the tumble?
This is an incredibly rare little thing.
We don't make full leather boxes.
Well, show this first, because then it comes back from behind.
They're published by the same guy, which is his name, Tatsy, a very active publisher in the middle of the 16th century, going into the 17th century.
This is a little garden of writing, you see.
G-A-I-D-I-N-E-T-T-O.
And it's by Gasparo Colombo Padavano.
P-A-P-O-V-A-N-O.
Padavano means he was from Padua.
That's from Padua right there.
And this is a book of telegraphic examples.
But it's never been cut by a binder, you see.
It's as the sheets were printed.
And writing books are...
rare to find a in good condition because they were used but was it was it should it have been cut i mean by design i've never seen another copy but i dare say if there was another copy they would have trimmed it you know so that's one so that's the writing that's the kind of model so we have other writing but you know calligraphic model but this book also this book combines calligraphy writing and lace design
Because, you know, the women who did the lace needed to know how to do alphabets.
And this has a combination for lace.
So the borders are lace patterns.
And these are sayings and things that are... And the center was full history.
So the combination of words.
These are... This is the... This is the... Right.
Yeah, that's our 300.
We have had three libraries in real life.
This is incredibly great.
It's incredibly rare.
It's not even complete.
But these lace books are so scary.
Well, the model, it's like buying a knitting pattern, but it's throwing it away.
Yeah, but they used it up, you see.
It was, again, it's not ephemeral in any way, but it's, its function was short-term, but not very short-term.
Well, that's the kind of book which I love, and I would love to buy more of, but here is an early collection of,
of looks on seruriers.
De Verges' piece, seruriers, lock-making, right?
Described, invented by Hugh Brisson, et cetera, and by Jean Valais, famous 17th century, 1662.
And you see how this goes.
I mean, it's fabulous.
God, look at that.
This is the whole book.
This one for Christmas.
These impressions are sad here.
These are key roles, right?
There's another key role, you can see.
It looks great, it's a normal thing.
The things you, tell me if you can give me some kind of a statement, you know, just reach into the creative spirit and come out of something on the meaning of these things.
I love it.
In fact, I'm thrilled that he wasn't saying that much for attention because I can compete with stuff like this.
This is from a different set.
A little focus.
Is that a book plate, per se?
What do we call these little steps?
I call it a bookmark.
Well, it's really, it's a book plate.
It's a book plate.
It's a book plate, but I thought that's bookmarked.
Because that's our, our mark.
Here's what happened to those plates.
Here's a book.
You look here, it says, number two, right?
Designs d'ordement pour les chambres.
You get that?
Mm-hmm.
Freezes.
This was from some cabinetmaker's shop in Paris or somewhere in France.
And these are, this is Stefano Della Bella.
I figured out each of these sets and written down the information.
And these, they go up into the late 17th century.
And you can find that very set that I showed you would be here if the plates survive.
They just keep grinding them out.
And these become invaluable for a workshop.
You can see how this is all stuff to be used.
You see, broad tasks and... I would love to find some more stuff like that.
But that's how these plates work.
Do you ever use any of this stuff to... Make my own words?
Yeah.
Well... Willing, no.
You see, as Lisa was telling you, we've been selecting ornament prints just lately.
This is one of our areas.
See, for what I'm about to show you, many great books could come to us.
But these are just, you know, single prints of ornaments and grotesque.
And lately, my books have been reflecting this interest.
So the answer is yes, the answer.
But I would say that the collecting does not have utility.
There's no utility into the collecting enterprise.
That is, for the artist, but willy-nilly,
As I'm working in similar materials, there is an influence.
I would have to be dead inside if there wasn't.
Right?
Right.
Okay.
I'm going to wrap up pretty soon because I think the recorders can't think much more.
Let me have to drive home.
I want to call you again.
We may have a few gaps to fill.
You haven't really scratched the surface here.
There's some background.
Seymour Edelman.
We would go to Philadelphia to visit Seymour.
Now, how did you know Seymour?
Well, I was teaching one year.
I taught the senior students at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts where Thomas Aikens taught, which is why I accepted that speech there.
And commuted.
And in those days, we had an active Aikens collection.
I loved Aikens.
And I did a book for the, a Gehenna Press book for the print club of Philadelphia, of which Seymour Aylman was then the president.
And there was a little party when the book was published, and I met him, and we hid it.
He knew every name I mentioned, and I knew everyone he mentioned from Haldane McCall, well, McLean McCall.
to everyone else, and we just talked and talked and talked for a night, and we'd become great friends.
And then Lisa became great friends.
And he was a great collector, probably the world's greatest collector of Haussmann, A. E. Haussmann.
Not probably.
Without a doubt.
Well, John Carter was the other.
Great collection of romantic literature.
Of romantic literature.
Unbelievable.
But also collected pugilism.
Yeah.
In his collection... Well, he was interested in it.
And a great Aikens collection.
It's all intact at Bryn Mawr.
It's not all intact, because Seymour had to sell certain things that he collected to raise money to buy Thomas Aikens' house.
Which he gave to the city of Philadelphia.
So Seymour sold off a lot of his agent.
Oh, yeah.
And Seymour is a great eccentric.
Never married.
Never threw a catalog away.
No one has ever been to his apartment.
We would go to visit him in Philadelphia, and we would stay at a hotel, and Seymour would visit us, and he would bring
Briefcase, a brown leather briefcase.
Why didn't she go in with him?
Because he wouldn't want to see us.
He never went into his apartment.
No, he never went into his apartment.
He said, you know the Collier brothers?
I make them look like pikers.
And his parents were still alive.
And apparently you couldn't move in their apartment.
He had elderly parents.
He received catalogs beginning in the early 1920s.
And he never threw a thing out.
He never threw on a wall.
And his lawyer had never been in his apartment until he died.
We were so amazed that they didn't break it up and sell it, though.
Oh, the Bryn Mawr Library, Bryn Mawr College.
When he was alive.
No, when he was still alive.
James Tanner's librarian somehow got him.
That's right.
He became a curator of his own collection.
He kept his collection in bank vault, in the first fiduciary bank of Philadelphia.
What was the source of his wealth?
His father owned a big piece of Chester, PA.
He was very bad.
Seymour didn't work the day he was alive.
Really?
Anyway, when he was alive, all of his things went to Bryn Mawr with Seymour.
And Seymour commuted to Bryn Mawr.
I mean, Seymour was then in his 70s, and he had three rooms downstairs in the Bryn Mawr Library.
And he was happy.
He saw his things for the first time in 15 years.
Out of the bank.
He only could see little.
He had no idea what was in those books after a while.
We'd go and stay in a hotel, and Seymour would come up to our room with his brown briefcase.
He would sit on the bed, and he would open the briefcase, and he would take out a parcel very neatly wrapped in brown wrapping paper, tied with a string.
A carte de visite that belongs to Thomas Aiken's thing.
Slowly unwrapped.
It's Keith.
It could be anything.
A Keith's letter.
He had the only Keith's letter in private hand.
One of two.
Well, not one of seven, actually.
At that time.
And just the most extraordinary things would come out of his little briefcase.
He would bring about six things to show us.
He also had a wonderful collection of unpublished Aikens photographs.
Now, most of this stuff is worth a very much.
All of it.
Except for the Aikens material, which went to the Dietrich
A lot of it, but a lot of the photographs are still at Brindman.
Oh, wow.
Oh, yeah, and I did a portrait of him.
And it's a book, and there was a New Yorker thing on, a piece on him.
Have you ever heard of the Scheider Library?
Scheider?
Yeah.
Yeah, I've seen that.
S-C-H-E-I-D-E?
Yeah.
I've seen them all.
Scheider, he bought Gutenberg Bibles from Krauss, right?
He's a millionaire.
Of course, Shida.
He's incredibly rich.
He's got more fucking money than anyone in the world.
And you know where that collection is?
I just found myself the other day.
Roger Stein.
I was down there interviewing Roger, and I said, well, I've got to get out of the J.C.
Dillon.
That's really the greatest example of generational collection.
There's Roger, you know.
He says, oh, yeah?
takes his book off the shelf, privately printed, 1947, the Scheider Family Library in Princeton, New Jersey.
It's three or four generations, privately, still privately owned, Mr. Scheider, which has consented to an interview, and then he writes to them.
They built a building at Princeton University.
It joins the library, but they've got the keys.
It's theirs.
It's their library.
It's their building
It's going to come today.
It may or may not.
But it's still a privately owned, and Roger says, and Roger we know, world class.
Oh, I know, because I remember when Hans-Peter Krauss sold one of his last Gutenberg Bible sales with Scheider, and I think in those days he paid.
Two million bucks or something, or one and a half.
A tremendous sum in those.
So about 15 years ago.
Okay, so I called blind the other day.
I got the man in the memory of the shadow library called.
This guy, Bill Stonehan, answers the phone.
He said, well, I'm just Chez Curita, a librarian.
And I told him what I was doing.
He said, sounds pretty good.
He said, you send me some things.
And I sent him a little package there.
And he'll send me some things.
And we leave that.
And they are doing a show at the grocery club.
Of the family collections?
Yeah, some examples of the family collections in the beginning of April and January.
We don't belong to the group.
I resigned.
It comes a year, yeah.
Am I?
Is it?
There's any reason they didn't have women at that time.
Well, that's a good reason.
That was a long time ago.
Well, now they're doing the big show when women collect this.
That's what Ruth is doing.
She is putting together a, you should really know about this show.
We don't see Ruth.
It's stupid, but we don't.
Yeah, but they're doing a show of great women collectors.
All of them are deceased, of course.
But anyway, that's... Well, I just thought it had no idea of what we collected.
He's never seen our books.
Well, don't tell anybody now.
Let's keep it quiet.
I want to do some... I will be doing a profile.
I think of this guy, Kirschenbaum.
Kirschenbaum's a new story.
I've known a family connection.
Yeah, but this...